Visiting Plan Zero
==================

:tags: tour de hackerspace, hackerspace, travelling
:language: en
:status: draft
:summary: Visiting the `Plan Zero`_ hackerspace

After a quite relaxing train ride, I arrived in Timișoara at 21:30.  After
contacting the hackerspace via email, Mihai, a member of the space, suggested
that he can pick me up from the train station and I can spend the night in the
hackerspace.  After some difficulties finding each other at the train station
we went directly to the space.

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_entry.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_entry.jpg
    :alt: Entry to the Plan Zero hackerspace
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Entry to the `Plan Zero`_ hackerspace

He than gave me a short tour around the space, especially showing me their (or
mainly his) awesome collection of fully working retro computers.

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_retro_3.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_retro_3.jpg
    :alt: Retro computer collection
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Retro computer collection

Amongst others they own a C-64, an Amiga and `Apple-II clones`_.  After the
quick show around he just handed me the keys to the space, showed me the couch
and explained me which doors to close over night.  I was impressed by this
level of trust they showed me!

So after hacking a *tiny bit* on the C-64 while getting constant attention from
the cat which lives in the space, I went to sleep around 3 in the morning.

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_c64.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_c64.jpg
    :alt: Having fun with the C-64
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Having fun with the C-64

The next day I explored the city and met with Mihai in the afternoon.  We then
took a quick look at the art atelier where his wife works.  After that we
proceeded back to the hackerspace.

Like almost every hackerspace Plan Zero also has a main room.  In contrast to
other spaces its more about hanging out and eating in the main room than
working.

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_main_room.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_main_room.jpg
    :alt: Main room
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Main room

Next there is a room with electronics equipment 3D printers and work places.

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_electronics_working_room.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_electronics_working_room.jpg
    :alt: Electronics / working room
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Electronics / working room

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_3d_printers.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_3d_printers.jpg
    :alt: 3D printers
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    3D printers

While one 3D printer is fully operational, one of the members is building his
own printer next to it.

The space is also well equipped for most mechanic needs, with a nice workshop.

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_work_shop_2.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_work_shop_2.jpg
    :alt: Workshop tooling
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Workshop tooling

Also similar to other spaces there is a small storage room for random stuff.

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_storage.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_storage.jpg
    :alt: Storage room
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Storage room

After I spent some time looking at the space, taking pictures and talking to
the members, we ordered the classic hackers dinner (pizza).  While spending the
night in the hackerspace was nice, It didn't have a shower, so I booked a
hostel nearby.  Despite their website saying one can check in until 23:00, when
we arrived there, nobody was present.  Luckily Claudiu and Andrei helped me
contacting the owner of the hostel so he could let me in.

When everything related to the hostel was resolved, they showed me some of the
cooler bars in Timișoara, where we had some beer, live music and a fun time
together!  What I learned that night was, that the Romanians party a bit harder
then what I can handle, so I was glad when we ordered a taxi together to get
back to my hostel at 5am ;)

After sleeping into the day and having some late breakfast I returned to the
hackerspace.

Mihai was also present in the space and tried to hook up an Amiga with a floppy
emulator which allows to connect USB thumb drives with images on it.  After
trying several USB drives and bricking one due to wrong wiring, he finally got
it working:

.. figure:: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_retro_4.jpg
    :target: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_retro_4.jpg
    :alt: Amiga running a disk image with the floppy emulator
    :align: center
    :width: 80%
    :figwidth: 80%

    Amiga running a disk image with the floppy emulator

When planning for my next destination I found out that traveling trough the
Balkan area by train is harder then I thought.  Apparently the direct line from
Timișoara to Belgrade got canceled some time ago (But was still present on the
InterRail map).  So I tried to find a ride on BlaBlaCar which worked, but then
the ride got cancelled some hours before the start because the driver had
problems with his car.  So in order to get to Belgrade I needed to take an 18h
train ride via Budapest.  Well, this at least gave me some time to write this
blog post ;)

.. _`Plan Zero`: http://planzero.ro
.. _`Apple-II clones`: /images/tour_de_hackerspace/plan_zero/plan_zero_retro_2.jpg
